RANGA KRISHNAN: I'm Ranga Kr
ishnan with Solidarity Social.
So I'm not going to talk too much about the why
.
I'll leave it to the questions.
I'm going to mostly go into what.
But if you want to look at some of the why,
Solidarity Social is the website.
It'll probably answer a lot of questions.
So with that, I want to get into what has been
built and what it is.
Too little time to do a live demo, so I recorded
it.
I'm going to start it here.
And so the cast of characters, this is the Solidarity
Social account.
This is a user that is on bSkySocial
, the regular network.
And the first part is that-- keep an eye on this
list.
These are the six parts I'm going to go through.
The first part is the pre-boarding.
How does somebody get an invite code?
So I'm going to start with that.
KnowKings is going to get an invite code here.
And the way it works is basically through a request.
And what you saw here is that the first message from the
Solidarity Social, which goes through the regular BlueSky
DMs, there's a little message that is automatically app
ended asking that user to request an invite code.
And so this person requests an invite code, and Solidarity
Social then will go to the request code generator section and generates
an invite code, which they can then DM over to the
other user.
And that user is now going to go to the Solidarity
app and start the process of migrating their account.
And so I'll just give a shout-out here to
Eurosky's tool EU hall, which we modified and are
using over here.
And they basically log in to their existing B-Sky
Social account, start the process of migration, they put in
their invite code when it's asked over here.
They first select the destination server, Solidar, put in
their invite code, and select the new handle.
In this case, we kept the handle the same at Solid
arity Social, and they're at this step, and they
're going to kick off the process.
There's a couple of email codes that they will receive that
they're going to enter here.
And as they go through-- you're going to see that
, that's the second one for the PLC directory update
.
And then they are going to-- that's success.
So they have now moved.
And so now the NoKings is going to log in
into the Solidar app using these new credentials.
And so they select the migrating account option.
And just over here, let me pause to say that we
need to set up a Matrix account for them.
So they don't know it's a Matrix account, except
, you know, we tell them, "Do you want
to do the default option?" So this is a Matrix server
that is run by the Matrix Foundation based in the EU.
Or they can actually bring in their own Matrix home server if
they prefer.
We expect most people will just use the default option.
And so there's some stuff called recovery keys and so on
for Matrix, which they don't need to worry about.
We manage all of that.
They select-- this is just the onboarding process and they
are going to have their account.
And so what I want to show you here is that--
just going back here-- that what they saw
in their chat, I think it's not showing it clearly
here, but there's two sections in their chat, the
secure and the insecure.
And so now they are actually going to send a message using
the secure chat to the user that sent
them the invite code.
So that's what you're seeing.
So these messages are the secure chat going to the other user
.
And one of the things they can do is actually access this
secure chat through other Matrix clients.
So that's what I'm going to show.
They can bring up a QR code, log in, you
know, through their phone-- you don't see that part
here, but that's what's going on.
And-- oh, it's not moving.
I'm sorry, yeah.
And see, that's the phone that's logging in over
there.
So they're logging in into the element client on the phone
.
And so this is one of the advantages of doing this.
They can access their DMs through other tools, which actually
can be quite useful.
So I can answer some questions about that.
And the second part is they can actually log in on the
desktop element client as well.
They verify again with their phone, which is now verified.
And now you'll see that, you know, there's
a message sent from that other client.
And it's now visible that that last message I can reply
from there is from the element client.
So now the last part is just I want to show you
that it's as easy for the user to actually move back
to BeskySocial.
We want to make that easy so that people are, you
know, confident in experimenting with this, and coming to our
server, and then going back.
So that's what this is showing.
It's actually going to take their account, you know,
back to BeskySocial.
So that's the what.
And I'm happy to take some questions.
But overall, you know, our goal is that, you
know, there are people here specifically, for example, the
people organizing the No Kings protest, etc.
Today, a lot of them are on Blue Sky.
They don't have private DMs that, you know,
they might be interested in that because they want to secure their
communications.
But in addition, because they need to actually migrate the account
and we host it for them.
It means that, you know, we can also offer them
more censorship resilience.
One of the ways we do that is to make it very
easy for them to migrate their account to another hoster,
perhaps in a different jurisdiction that can help them, you know
, have better protection.
So happy to take a few questions.
No,
no, it's the same.
Yeah, I mean, later you can change it if you
want.
But when it goes initially, you go back to your old
handle.
Because blue, bsky.
social reserves it.
We do the same for them.
They can actually do another trip back to us and we'll
keep their handle for them.
Yeah.
Yes.
Okay, so we have some experience with Matrix because, you
know, I have a software company where we're building real
estate related apps using the Matrix SDK, etc.
So we had some many years of experience with that.
So that's kind of the blue sky part was the new
part for us.
But even there, I think we pretty much we have React
developers and, you know, that's all we really needed
to know.
We don't know.
We didn't have to get too deep into AT Proto
.
Yes.
There's no connection between the blue sky server and the Matrix
server.
They're just two different servers.
They're coming together in this React social app.
So, you know, what you see is they don't
know about each other.
Yeah.
So that really helps with, you know, being able to
use all the other Matrix stuff because there's no change.
They can log in with other clients.
Yes, go ahead.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, but they'll have only one credential.
We generate the Matrix account for them in the background.
You know, what is the name, managing the credentials.
Even, you know, in Matrix, there's a second
more than a password.
There's even a recovery key.
We do all of that in the background so they don't
know anything about it.
They just remember username, password.
That's it.
As they do with blue sky.
So the way we do it, you know, the secure
way to do it is what I showed over there.
Show the QR code, and that logs you in into your
mobile app.
And then after that, if you want to go into the
desktop app, you know, you actually, again, you
're already logged in.
So if you open another browser tab, you will actually go
directly into the app, but you still need to verify,
and you do the verification against the phone.
So, yeah, the idea is we don't show them
the key, but we allow them to basically do what's
needed.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.